Evolutionary analysis by the Maximum Likelihood method
The phylogeny was inferred using the Maximum Likelihood method and Tamura (1992) model [1] of nucleotide substitutions and the tree with the highest log likelihood (-428.31) is shown. The percentage of replicate trees in which the associated taxa clustered together (1,000 replicates) is shown next to the branches [2]. The initial tree for the heuristic search was selected by choosing the tree with the superior log-likelihood between a Neighbor-Joining (NJ) tree [3] and a Maximum Parsimony (MP) tree. The NJ tree was generated using a matrix of pairwise distances computed using the p-distance [4]. The MP tree had the shortest length among 10 MP tree searches, each performed with a randomly generated starting tree. The analytical procedure encompassed 23 nucleotide sequences. The partial deletion option was applied to eliminate all positions with less than 95% site coverage resulting in a final data set comprising 144 positions. Evolutionary analyses were conducted in MEGA12 [5] utilizing up to 4 parallel computing threads.


1. Tamura K. (1992). Estimation of the number of nucleotide substitutions when there are strong transition-transversion and G + C-content biases. Molecular Biology and Evolution 9:678-687.
2. Felsenstein J. (1985). Confidence limits on phylogenies: An approach using the bootstrap. Evolution 39:783-791.
3. Saitou N. and Nei M. (1987). The neighbor-joining method: A new method for reconstructing phylogenetic trees. Molecular Biology and Evolution 4:406-425.
4. Nei M. and Kumar S. (2000). Molecular Evolution and Phylogenetics. Oxford University Press, New York.
5. Kumar S., Stecher G., Suleski M., Sanderford M., Sharma S., and Tamura K. (2024). Molecular Evolutionary Genetics Analysis Version 12 for adaptive and green computing. Molecular Biology and Evolution 41:1-9.
Disclaimer: While every effort has been made to ensure the accuracy of the caption, it is provided "as is" without warranty of any kind. Users are advised to thoroughly review the caption before its use for any purpose and report any errors or issues to the authors at www.megasoftware.net. The authors and their employers disclaim any liability for damages, including but not limited to special or consequential damages. Additionally, the authors expressly disclaim all other warranties, whether expressed or implied, including the suitability of the caption text for a specific purpose, use, or application.
